.TH SRS 1 "March 2026" "srs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
srs \- Speakly Spaced Repetition System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B srs
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B srs
is a CLI tool that syncs your learned vocabulary from Speakly and provides
spaced repetition review using the SM\-2 algorithm. Built for local use with
a SQLite database.
.PP
On first sync, you will be prompted to paste a cURL command copied from your
browser's devtools (Network tab). This provides the authentication headers
needed to access the Speakly API. Headers are saved for subsequent syncs and
automatically re\-prompted if the session expires.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B sync
Fetch words from the Speakly API and store them locally. By default, stops
early when a full page contains only already\-known cards. New cards are
immediately available for review.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-full
Fetch all pages without early stopping. Useful to update existing card data
(translations, grammar tips).
.TP
.B \-\-from\-file \fIFILE\fR
Import cards from a JSON file instead of the API. Accepts both a raw results
array and the full API response format with a \fBresults\fR key.
.RE
.TP
.B review
Start an interactive review session. Shows all cards due today (where
\fBnext_review <= today\fR), ordered oldest first. Cards with the same
review date are presented in random order.
.RS
.PP
For each card:
.IP 1. 3
The German sentence is shown with hidden words replaced by underscores,
along with the Polish translation hint.
.IP 2. 3
Press \fBEnter\fR to reveal the full sentence, translations, and
per\-word meanings. Audio pronunciation plays automatically.
.PP
If \fBtyping mode\fR is enabled (see \fBsrs config typing on\fR), you
will instead be prompted to type the hidden words (space\-separated).
The sentence is then shown with your answers filled in \(em correct
words in green, mistakes in red with the expected word.
Comparison is case\-sensitive.
.IP 3. 3
Rate your recall:
.RS
.TP
.B 1 (Again)
Forgot completely. Card resets and comes back tomorrow.
.TP
.B 2 (Hard)
Recalled with difficulty. Interval advances slowly.
.TP
.B 3 (Good)
Normal recall. Interval follows standard SM\-2 progression.
.TP
.B 4 (Easy)
Instant recall. Interval grows faster.
.RE
.TP
.B r
Replay the pronunciation audio.
.TP
.B q
Quit the session. Progress on already\-rated cards is saved.
.RE
.TP
.B stats
Display learning statistics: total cards, cards due today, cards reviewed
today, never\-reviewed cards, mature cards (interval >= 21 days), and a
7\-day upcoming review forecast.
.TP
.B browse \fR[\fIquery\fR]
Browse or search the word bank. Without a query, lists the first 50 cards
ordered by Speakly position (frequency rank). With a query, searches across
German phrases and Polish translations.
.TP
.TP
.B config
Show current configuration settings.
.TP
.B config typing on\fR|\fBoff
Enable or disable typing mode. When enabled, review cards prompt you to
type the hidden words instead of pressing Enter to reveal. Your typed
answers are shown inline in the sentence with color\-coded feedback.
Settings are saved to \fI~/.speakly\-srs/config.json\fR.
.TP
.B config skip\-new\-today on\fR|\fBoff
Enable or disable skipping cards that were added today during review.
When enabled, newly synced cards won't appear in the same day's review
session, giving you a day before they first come up. Default: off.
.TP
.B notify on \fR[\fB\-\-at \fIHH:MM\fR] [\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
Enable macOS notifications for pending reviews. Installs a LaunchAgent that
fires at the specified times (default: 09:00). The \fB\-\-at\fR flag can be
repeated for multiple daily reminders. Only sends a notification when cards
are actually due.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-at \fIHH:MM\fR
Set a reminder time. Can be specified multiple times (e.g.
\fB\-\-at 09:00 \-\-at 18:00\fR). Default: 09:00.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Fire the notification immediately without installing the schedule. Useful for
testing.
.RE
.TP
.B notify off
Disable notifications. Removes the LaunchAgent and cleans up config.
.TP
.B notify status
Show whether notifications are active and at what times.
.SH SM\-2 ALGORITHM
The review system uses a standard SM\-2 spaced repetition algorithm.
.PP
.B Interval progression
(when rating Good):
.br
1 day \(-> 6 days \(-> interval \(mu ease_factor \(-> ...
.PP
.B Ease factor
starts at 2.5 and adjusts based on ratings. Minimum is 1.3. Easy ratings
increase the factor; Again/Hard ratings decrease it.
.PP
Cards rated Again are reset to a 1\-day interval regardless of their
previous progress.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.speakly\-srs/srs.db
SQLite database containing all cards and review state.
.TP
.I ~/.speakly\-srs/headers.json
Saved HTTP headers parsed from the cURL command, used for API authentication.
.TP
.TP
.I ~/.speakly\-srs/notify.json
Notification schedule configuration (managed by \fBsrs notify on/off\fR).
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.speakly\-srs.notify.plist
macOS LaunchAgent for scheduled notifications (managed by \fBsrs notify on/off\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.speakly\-srs/config.json
Optional configuration file. Supported keys:
.RS
.TP
.B language_pair_id
Speakly language pair ID (default: 15, German\-Polish).
.TP
.B daily_review_limit
Maximum cards per review session (default: 100).
.TP
.B require_typing
Enable typing mode for reviews (default: false). Managed via
\fBsrs config typing on/off\fR.
.TP
.B skip_new_today
Skip cards added today during review (default: false). Managed via
\fBsrs config skip\-new\-today on/off\fR.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
First\-time sync:
.B srs sync
.br
(Prompts for cURL command from browser devtools)
.TP
Full re\-sync of all cards:
.B srs sync \-\-full
.TP
Import from a JSON file:
.B srs sync \-\-from\-file words.json
.TP
Start a review session:
.B srs review
.TP
Search for a word:
.B srs browse Freund
.TP
View statistics:
.B srs stats
.TP
Enable daily review reminders at 9am and 6pm:
.B srs notify on \-\-at 09:00 \-\-at 18:00
.TP
Test the notification:
.B srs notify on \-\-dry\-run
.SH AUTHORS
Bartosz Lipinski
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at the project repository.
